# Wilbur Atkinson's journal from his trip to France

## August 1918

> This has been transcribed from Nancy Jones's
> transcription.  Nancy turned it from paper hand-written journal to
> typed-on-paper.  And I'm turning it from typed-on-paper to digitalized.
>
> Jesse Atkinson (Wilbur Atkinson's great grandson)

> Wilbur Atkinson's diary was written in an old school note book.  I have typed
> it out for all of the children, grandchildren and great grandchildren to share.
> I have left the spelling and punctuation alone in almost all cases.  I only
> edited the punctuation when it made it easier to understand the sequence of
> events.  I have also included a map of France to indicate where he was stationed
> and the route he took on his trip to the mountains.
>
> Nancy Jones (Wilbur Atkinson's granddaughter)

### My Trip to France

We left Camp Beaugard at 1045 a.m. on the 14 of August.  We had pullman cars for
the trip.  We stopped in the switch yards of Shreivesport LA. while the red
cross gave us refreshments and tabacco.  Our next stop was Jonesbourough Ark.
where we detrained and took exercise.  The next time we left the train was at
Decatur Ill. where we had a good bath and sweets from the red cross again.  We
went through Laffette Ind.  Late in the evening we crossed into Canada at
Detroit Mich.  About 3 o'clock in the morning I woke up cold and looked out of
the window.  The first thing I saw was a Canadian Solider.  We traveled until
day light along lake St Clair.  We got off at St Thomas.  We could notice the
difference in the country and people and we missed the Red Cross.  We took a
hike over the city.  We saw a company of negroes there.  Our next stop was at
Niagra where we hiked out to the falls. We crossed the Niagra river over into
the states.  We were glad to get back into the U.S. even if we were not out of
it over 12 hours.  Our next stop of any importance was at Mauchchunk Pa.  We did
not get off the train.  This is a very interesting town being a summer resort
there was a good many people there.  The town is located on two ridges with the
Le High river running between.  We followed the Le High river as it wound its
way down the mountain.  The rial road was first on one side then on the other.
We could look out of one side of the car down upon swift running water and out
of the other side we could not see the top of the mountain and part of the time
not even the sky.  The same day we went past the Betheleham steel works here we
was welcomed by whistles of all tones and they was held down as long as we were
within hearing.  We arrived in the New York Station at about 3:15 p.m. on the
18th of August.  Here we loaded on a small steamer which carried us over to Long
Island.  We passed pretty close to the Statute of Liberty and saw the tallest
building in New York on Long Island.  We were put on steel passanger cars which
had Long Island along the top in large letters.  We saw some fine country on our
way to camp.  We arrived at camp about 7:30 p.m.  Our first night in Camp was a
little cool for we had only one blanket and it gets pretty cool at night in
August on Long Island.
We were wearing campagn hats and canvas leggings while all the other
organizations were wearing over sea caps and spirral leggings.  We felt a little
out of place until we were issued them.  I did not get to go to rockaway beach
or New York while we were there on account of not having the money.  There was
air planes in the air all day doing all kins of stunts.  I saw several
hydroplanes flying over.  On the evening of the 27 of August we were given
orders to role our packs and get read y to move.  It was generaly thought that
we were going to Camp Merrit which is just over in New Jersey.  That night we
sleeped on bare springs.  A while before the day light we fell out with packs
was counted off given squads right and marched off down the road.  We loaded on
cars at day break and taken to the same station that we come through when we
come over.  We were loaded on a small steamer which started down the Hudson.  We
passed the entrence of the harbor then we come in sight of the U.S. transport
piers.  We knew then where we were going.  Then we come in sight of a large
three funnel (a metal chimney on a steam ship) ship and we were much suprised
and pleased when we were loaded on it.  It was the Levienthian of the Fatherland
the largest ship afloat.  We loaded on about 1:00 p.m.  About 3:00 p.m. a guard
list was called off and I was one of them.  I go ta post on the same deck as the
battery was guarding a water tite door.  We were on 4 hours and off 8.  So I got
the morning on deck.  We sailed at 1 p.m. on 31st of August.  There were two
other transports with us the Great Northern and the Northern Pacific.  There
were two or three bands on the pier playing as we pulled out by tugs.  I was on
guard while we were going out of the harbor and when I came on deck at 4 O'clock
I could just see a little fringe of land off to the left.  I saw my first flying
fish that evening while looking over the rail at the water.  There was four
submarines destroyers with us that evening.  The next morning I went on deck and
there was the same things just as there was the night before except the land.
Then the ships begin a zigzag course.  The boat began to rock and role and we
gean to get light headed.  And sometimes it would seem as though I was walking
up hill an dthen I would start down another.  I would start down stairs to
anothe rdeck and it would seem as though the stairs wre ocoming up to meet me.
The next morning the destroyers had disappeared and we were alone with the other
two transports.  We went on until two days out of port we were met by a convoy.
I had started to climb up to my bunk when one of the destroyers dropped a depth
bomb which shook the boat so that I almost lost my hold.  We sighted land a
little while after dinner and arrived in the harbor of Breast at about 5 pm.m on
the 7th of September.
The ship was so large tht they culd not get it up to the piers and had to anchor
it out in the harbor.  We did not get off until about 5:30 on the evening of the
8th of Sept.  Then we loaded on another little steamer and was taken ashore.  We
were started on our hike to the rest camp.  We hadn't started until it begin to
rain and it rained on us all the way to camp which was about 3 miles.  We had to
pitch our pup tents that night.  We finally got to bed about 11:00.  The next
morning I was woke up by some one running over my tent and broke the rear tent
pole and steppe don my bunkies face.  It had stopped raining but not for long.
We were wondering where they got sunny France out of that.  This was a rest
camp.  But we had plenty of work buildings ware houses and unloading boats.  We
were sure glad to leave there which we did on Sunday the 15th of Sept.  It
happended to be a nice sunny day.  We loaded on box cars which were marked on
the side 40 hommes or 8 cheaveaux which means 40 men or 8 horses.  There was 40
men in the car I wa sin and it filled it full.  We left Breast about 7.pm. for
our ride across France.  That night we did not sleep much because we could not
lay down on teh floor .  The next morning we unloaded about 9 o'clock at Messac.
We hiked over to Bain about 9 Kilomters (6 miles).  We were pretty well played
out when we arrived there late in the evening.  we were billeted inn lofts of
barns and got a good nights sleeep.  we had a cold supper the night that we
arrievd in Bain but we ate like hungry dogs.  The only time I really saw
soldiers eat their corn willie with such an appitite.  We hadn't had anything to
eat for 24 hours.  I was promoted to corporal while we were here.  We drilled
every day and went through all kinds of setting up exercises.  We had two new
Lieutants and they put us in the best physical shape that we have ever been in
by double timin gus until we were out of breath and then putting us through all
kind of movements standing until we were ready to double time some more.
